Start of transcript. Skip to the end.
Cloud is a godsend for data scientists primarily because you take your data, take your information,
and put it in the Cloud, put it in the central storage system.
It allows you to bypass the physical limitations of the computers and the systems you're using,
and it allows you to deploy the analytics and storage capacities of advanced machines
that do not necessarily have to be your machine or your company's machine.
Cloud allows you not just to store large amounts of data on servers somewhere in California
or in Nevada, but it also allows you to deploy very advanced computing algorithms and the
ability to do high performance computing using machines that are not yours.
So, think of it as you have some information, you can't store it, so you send it to storage
space, let's call it Cloud.
And the algorithms that you need to use, you don't have them with you.
But then, on the Cloud, you have those algorithms available.
So, what you do is you deploy those algorithms on very large data sets and you're able to
do it even though your own systems, your own machines, your own computing environment would
not allow you to do so.
So, Cloud is beautiful.
And the other thing Cloud is beautiful for is that it allows multiple entities to work
with same data at the same time.
So, you can be working with the same data that your colleagues in, say, Germany, and
another team in India, and another team in Ghana, they are collectively working and they're
able to do so because the information, and the algorithms, and the tools, and the answers,
and the results, whatever they needed is available at a central place which we call Cloud.
Using the Cloud enables you to get instant access to open-source technologies like Apache
Spark, without the need to install and configure them locally.
Using the Cloud also gives you access to the most up-to-date tools and libraries without
the worry of maintaining them and ensuring that they are up-to-date.
The Cloud is accessible from everywhere, and in every time zone.
You can use Cloud-based technologies from your laptop, from your tablet and even from
your phone, enabling collaboration more easily than ever before.
Multiple collaborators or teams can access the data simultaneously, working together
on producing a solution.
Some big tech companies offer cloud platforms, allowing you to become familiar with cloud-based
technologies in a pre-built environment; IBM offers the IBM Cloud, Amazon offers Amazon
Web Services (or AWS), and Google offers Google Cloud Platform.
IBM also provides Skills Network Labs (or SN Labs) to learners registered at any of
the learning portals on the IBM Developer Skills Network, where you have access to tools
like Jupyter Notebooks and Spark clusters, so you can create your own data science project
and develop solutions.
With practice and familiarity, you will discover how the Cloud dramatically enhances productivity
for data scientists.
End of transcript. Skip to the start.